---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3 Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-27
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - UHM
---

SmartPhoneProducts1 with Variables

This WOD focused on the use of javascript accompanying HTML code, in order for certain aspects to be loaded dynamically rather than being "hard-coded" in. This can prove to be extremely useful, especially when altering the same code in the future, as only a variables value assignment needs to be changed rather than every instance if it were to be hard-coded. We used references to variables, as well as the command document.write, in order to display values from specific algorithms or variables, rather than specific strings themselves. 

Learning the specific values regarding RegEX definitely slowed me down during this WOD. Since we were changing large amounts of the same data values, understanding how to capture multiple instances of code using RegEX and understanding the syntax that accompanies it was a necessary but difficult concept to wrap my head around. I was able to more easily wrap my head around dislaying specific values dynamically, and referencing to objects and variables through document.write commands in javascript, since we had some practice with it in previous labs. 

I wouldn't say that I approached this WOD any differently than the others; however, this was one of the first WODs that I was able to Rx on my first attempt. Although there were a few differences that I noticed between my code and the solution, I was happy to know that my code still worked despite being slightly inefficient in certain areas. Before the next WOD, I think it would be wise to research specific syntax and understand certain functions more in depth. For example, although I understand how the document.write command works, I still have trouble correctly positioning the quotation marks or even the semicolon, which often results in a frustrating error that takes me way longer to resolve than it should.
